Involvement of heat shock factor 1 in statin-induced transcriptional upregulation of endothelial thrombomodulin. 
Statins upregulate endothelial thrombomodulin (TM) by mechanisms that involve members of the Kruppel-like factor family. Although Kruppel-like factors are unequivocally implicated in this process, experimental evidence points to additional mechanisms. Deletion/mutation analysis of reporter constructs was used to demonstrate that mutation of the SP1/Kruppel-like factor element in the TM promoter only partially abolishes statin-induced TM upregulation, whereas simultaneous mutation of relevant heat shock elements and SP1/Kruppel-like factor element completely prevents statin-induced TM upregulation, thus demonstrating a role for heat shock factors (HSFs). We further identified the pathway by which statins increase binding of HSF1 to heat shock elements in the TM promoter. Specifically, statins caused NO-dependent dissociation of HSF1 from heat shock protein 90, nuclear translocation of HSF1, and binding to heat shock elements in the TM promoter. Statins also decreased nuclear content of the HSF1 chaperone 14-3-3beta. In addition to reducing TM upregulation, inhibition of HSF1 reduced statin-induced upregulation of tissue plasminogen activator, whereas downregulation of thrombomospondin, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, or connective tissue growth factor was unaffected. Knockdown of 14-3-3beta or inhibition of HSF1 phosphorylation enhanced the effect of statins on TM and tissue plasminogen activator, but did not influence thrombomospondin, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, or connective tissue growth factor. These data demonstrate that HSF1 is involved in statin-induced regulation of TM. They also suggest that analogous mechanisms may apply to genes that are upregulated by statins, but not to downregulated genes. These results may have broad implications and suggest the use of heat shock protein modulators to selectively regulate pleiotropic statin effects. 
