To test whether GOF and LOF of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling affected the levels of mstn RNA, we employed quantitative real-time PCR to quantify expression of mstn mRNA in axin1/apc1 mutants versus Lef1-morphants at different developmental times. The data showed that reduced Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in Lef1 morphants resulted in upregulation of mstn mRNA (Fig. 7B, C), whereas hyperactivity of the pathway in the axin1/apc1 mutants led to a slight mstn downregulation at 36 hpf (Fig. 7B), and a more significant downregulation at 54 hpf (Fig. 7C). We then analyzed the level of Myostatin protein at 54 hpf. Predictably and in agreement with the qPCR data, the level of processed mature monomeric Myostatin protein was significantly induced in Lef1-morphants suggesting that reduced Wnt signaling through Lef1 leads to de-repression of Myostatin. Surprisingly, in axin1/apc1 embryos, the level of Myostatin protein is similar to that of wild-type embryos, suggesting that subtle increase of myostatin mRNA in the Wnt/beta-catenin GOF context, does not translate into an increase in the stable protein (Fig. 7D). Why and how this mechanistically takes place need further investigation. As lef1 was upregulated in the somites of axin/apc mutants at 30 hpf, we tested whether misexpression of mstn would alter this Wnt/beta-catenin downstream target gene. Misexpression of mstn downregulated ectopic lef1 in the mutants as well as slightly downregulating lef1 expression in wildtype siblings (Fig. 7E) showing genetic interaction between Mstn and Wnt/beta-catenin signalling and probably underlying the mechanism of muscle fiber rescue. To corroborate possible interaction between the two pathways we performed in silico analysis to identify putative TCF-binding elements (TBE) in myostatin promoter, as have been identified in the promoters of Wnt target genes. Indeed, we found 3 putative TBE (NNCAAAG) within a 2.8 kb sequence upstream of the myostatin gene at positions -2790, -2389 and -1578 (data not shown) opening up the possibility of a direct interaction between Wnt and Myostatin.
