(A) Mean length of primary and secondary neurites of neurons transfected with control shRNA/pEGFP, Capzb2 shRNA/pEGFP, or Capzb2 shRNA/RNAi resistant (Res) Capzb2-EGFP (ratio 4:1) were analyzed 72 h posttransfection and 4% paraformaldehyde fixation. Capzb2 shRNA transfection results in reduced length of both primary and secondary neurites; concomitant transfection of RNAi Res Capzb2-EGFP reverses the effect of Capzb2 RNAi. Mean values +/-s.e.m. (n = 100 neurons in each category) are depicted; *** = p<0.001. (B and C) Representative shRNA/pEGFP transfected neurons: (B) control shRNA/pEGFP and (C) Capzb2 shRNA/pEGFP; GFP (green), F-actin (red), and betaIII-tubulin (purple); scale bar indicates 10 microm. (D) Higher magnification of a normal growth cone delineated by the white box in (B), characterized by an F-actin-rich periphery (red) and a betaIII-tubulin-rich C-zone (purple); scale bar indicates 5 microm. (E) Higher magnification of a growth cone delineated by the white box in (C) in which there is overlap of F-actin (red) and betaIII-tubulin (purple) signal; scale bar indicates 5 microm. Note the altered morphology as characterized by the absence of lamellipodia, resulting in a fork-like appearance. (F) Representative images of betaIII-tubulin (purple) and F-actin (red) in normal, fork-like, and unclassified growth cones/actin-rich neuritic endings (scale bar indicates 5 microm), and quantification of each of these categories in neurons transfected with control shRNA/pEGFP, Capzb2 shRNA/pEGFP, and Capzb2 shRNA+RNAi Res Capzb2-EGFP (rescue transfection). The neurons were fixed in PHEM buffer 48 h posttransfection. The neuritic ending morphology classified as fork-like lacked lamellipodia, and the betaIII-tubulin signal (purple) extended into the periphery and overlapped with F-actin (red) rather than being confined centrally as in normal growth cones. Fork-like "growth cones" dominated in neurons transfected with Capzb2 shRNA, whereas normal growth cones were significantly more common in control and rescue conditions. The third category, unclassified, represents neuritic endings that could not be classified as either normal or fork-like. These neuritic endings had uniform appearance and were found in similar frequencies across the experimental conditions. more than 230 growth cones/actin-rich neuritic endings from neurons belonging to each category were analyzed; mean values +/-s.e.m. are depicted; *** = p<0.001. (G) EGFP-Capzb2 is present in the neuronal soma and processes including the growth cones where it colocalizes with betaIII-tubulin. The lower panels are higher magnifications of the area delineated by the white box in the upper right-hand panel.
