Our data indicates that the Rbf1 IE region influences Rbf1 instability and contributes to Rbf1 repression potency, providing a link between these two activities. However, during these analyses we additionally observed that Rbf1 (6KA), harboring substitutions of all lysine residues within the IE was reproducibly a more potent repressor than Rbf1 (4KA), harboring substitutions of only the four most N-terminal lysine residues within the IE. This observation raised the possibility that while most of the lysines play a positive role in Rbf1 repression, one or both of the C-terminal-most lysine residues (K774, K782) play a negative role, restricting Rbf1 activity. Therefore, to determine whether the lysine residues within the IE contribute to both positive and negative regulation of Rbf1 function, we tested the repression activities of Rbf1 proteins with individual alanine substitutions of each lysine residue within the IE. A subset of these results is shown in Figure 6A, revealing three outcomes. In one case (K732), alanine substitution did not affect repressor potency and was indistinguishable from wild-type Rbf1. The second class of mutants were hypomorphic (K739, K740, K754), exhibiting modest but reproducible inhibitory effects on repression, consistent with these residues contributing a positive influence on repressor potency (Figure 6, A and B). In contrast, three mutants, K774A, K774R, and K782A exhibited hypermorphic phenotypes with modest but reproducibly higher repression activity than the wild-type Rbf1 protein, suggesting that these residues are involved in a negative control of repressor activity (Figure 6, A and B). In cases where lysine to arginine substitution did not moderate activity to wild-type levels, such as with K754 and K774, it is possible that the lysine in question is a target of modification, as a positive charge is not the sole important feature. However, for mutants with only single point mutations, we did not observe the robust stabilization of mutant proteins compared with the wild-type protein (not shown). Together, these data also indicate that the IE exerts both positive and negative influences on transcriptional activity. Those mutant forms of Rbf1 lacking all lysines exhibited intermediate repression phenotypes because of two distinct and opposite effects, with decreased activity caused by mutations in K739, 740, and 754 partially offset by increased activity mediated by the mutation of K774 and K782.
