Recent findings have demonstrated a possible role of the TMD in TLR activation. First, it has been shown that by forcing the TMD and TIR domains of TLRs to be in a dimeric complex using constitutively dimeric extracellular domains, it is possible to activate the NF-kappaB pathway as well as other known TLR gene promoters in the absence of ligands. Second, FRET studies demonstrated that TLR9 existed as preformed dimers in the cell membrane and underwent small conformational changes upon ligand addition. Third, structural modeling using the TLR3 extracellular domain and TLR10 TIR domain suggested a close proximity between TMD domains in the dimeric complex that could allow for the TMD region to associate. Last, recent studies on TLR4 have demonstrated the importance of the tight coupling of the extracellular domain and TIR domain to the TMD as a requirement for signaling, and that the TLR4 extracellular domain prevents constitutive dimeric activation of TLR4 in the absence of ligand. Based on these findings and the fact that the TLRs are single pass membrane proteins that are known to form functional homo- and heterodimers we asked the question if TLR TMDs are capable of oligomerization in a manner analogous to the native TLRs. Interestingly, such a hypothesis is also supported by the fact that for the two pairs of heterodimeric TLRs (TLR2/1, TLR2/6), the transmembrane domain sequences of TLR1 and TLR6 are almost identical (Table 1) due to recent evolutionary divergence, suggesting that their TMD regions possibly contribute to their association with TLR2. Our results demonstrate that isolated TLR TMDs are indeed capable of oligomerizing and have higher propensity for TLR interactions previously identified. Studies of whether such findings apply to the full length TLRs are currently ongoing. Nonetheless, good correlations with existing structural and functional data has been observed, implying that such interactions between TLR TMDs may be biologically relevant. As such, our findings may provide new targets for the development of chemotherapeutics for diseases wherein dysregulated TLR signaling is implicated.
