The results presented above indicate that Dcs1 and Aph1 are involved in cap degradation in yeast extract. To test whether these proteins affect the fate of cap structures released by RNA degradation in vivo in cells, we transformed a 49-nt RNA in the different yeast strains by electroporation. This artificial RNA was radiolabeled on the phosphate in position gamma of the cap structure. Forty-five minutes post-electroporation, we extracted the cellular content and fractionated it by TLC after protein inactivation and removal. Several products, some comigrating with m7-containing nucleotides and some of unknown identity, were detected by autoradiography (Figure 6, lane 1). Control reactions demonstrated that these products arose as a consequence of RNA introduction in cells, as they were not detected when no cells were present and when the radiolabeled RNA was added after the electric pulse (data not shown). Interestingly, in absence of Dcs1 (Deltadcs1 and Delta dcs1/Deltaynk1 strains), we observed the accumulation of m7GDP and, to a higher extent, of a second product migrating slightly faster (labeled Ypp), as well as traces of m7GTP and m7GpppG (Figure 6, lanes 3 and 4). Product Ypp is a nucleotide diphosphate as in the presence of ATP it is a substrate of NDK (Figure 6 compare lanes 3-4 and 11-12). Moreover, product Ypp is likely to be a derivative of m7GDP as it accumulates when the m7GDP level rises (Figure 6) and as it is present after electroporation of m7GDP in Deltadcs1Deltaynk1 cells (data not shown). The accumulation of m7GDP and a downstream derivative in Deltadcs1 cells provides a direct evidence for the role of Dcs1 in cap metabolism in vivo. Deletion of ynk1 encoding NDK had little effect on the product profile (Figure 6, compare lanes 1 and 2), probably because other enzymes are redundant with Ynk1. The same applied to a Delta aph1 strain, consistent with the limited impact of the absence of Aph1 alone on m7GpppG breakdown in vitro (Figure 6, lane 5). Importantly, however, the simultaneous elimination of Aph1 and Dcs1 lead to strong accumulation of m7GpppG in cells (Figure 6, lane 6) with a slight reduction in m7GDP levels. No further enhancement was detected when NDK was simultaneously absent (Figure 6, lane 8). To ascertain our identifications, we incubated purified recombinant Dcs1 protein in the lysate. This reaction confirmed that m7GpppG accumulated in Deltadcs1/Deltaaph1 electroporated cells as this product was hydrolyzed into m7GMP (Figure 5, compare lanes 6-8 and 22-24).
