The N-terminal domain of BamA contains five POTRA domains with POTRA5 linked to the membrane embedded C-terminal beta-barrel. Previous genetic and biochemical data suggested that the interaction with BamD was mediated by POTRA5. BamD is composed of five Tetratricopeptide repeats (TPR) that, due to lipidation of its N-terminal cysteine, has its N-terminal TPR topologically close to the membrane. It was then reasoned that linking the C-terminus of POTRA5 to the N-terminus of BamD with an appropriately long, flexible linker could result in a soluble fusion that allows formation of the native interface while dispensing with the membrane embedded elements that may hinder crystallization. We recently utilized such a subunit fusion strategy to successfully define the interface between BamA and BamB. Choosing an appropriate linker is crucial, as one that is too short would prevent formation of the native interface while an overly long one would likely interfere with crystallization. As BamD is approximately 90 Aa long from the first TPR to the C-terminus, a 22 amino acid linker was initially tested for the fusions. With a stretched length of more than 75 Aa, it would accommodate most possible orientations between BamA and BamD while increasing the "local concentrations" of the proteins, helping stabilize a complex. The BamA periplasmic domain is known to be conformationally flexible due to a hinge between POTRA2 and POTRA3. Therefore, to further increase the chances of crystallization, fusions containing only POTRA3-5 and POTRA4-5 were designed in addition to the full POTRA1-5 fragment. Screening of several constructs for expression and crystallization resulted in crystals of a fusion between POTRA4-5 (amino acids 303-467) and BamD (amino acids 24-280) from Rhodothermus marinus linked by a 22 amino acid linker (sequence: HVASGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGTS). Refinement of the crystallization conditions to 10% PEG-3000, 15% 2-Propanol and 0.1 M HEPES pH 5.6 yielded single crystals suitable for X-ray diffraction analysis. A native dataset to 2.0 Aa resolution was collected from cryoprotected crystals using synchrotron radiation. Data collection statistics are shown in Table 1.
