Prompted by our observations of a critical function of FBXO32 during EMT, we investigated its expression in a wide range of human tumors. A large-scale analysis of several well-characterized human clinical expression data sets revealed an exceptionally strong amplification of FBXO32 in a majority of human tumors (Fig. 6a). Computational analyses revealed significantly higher expression of FBXO32 in various tumors compared to the matched normal tissues (Fig. 6b, c and Supplementary Fig. 9a-d). In support of our observations, FBXO32 levels correlated positively with the levels of established mesenchymal markers and negatively with the levels of epithelial markers in different types of tumor examined (Supplementary Fig. 9e-f). A survival analysis of the clinical breast tumor data sets revealed a significant correlation between higher FBXO32 expression and poor relapse-free and metastasis-free survival (Fig. 6d, e). Moreover, FBXO32 expression showed the expected correlation with the levels of established EMT markers as well as the identified FBXO32-induced EMT genes in multiple cancers, corroborating its critical role during human tumor metastasis (Fig. 6f-i). A deeper analysis of various tumor data sets (breast, colon, gastric, lung, and ovarian tumor) further validated these findings (Supplementary Fig. 9g-l, and 10a-c). In addition, transcriptome analysis of a large set of cancer cell lines confirmed an enhanced expression of FBXO32 in mesenchymal cancer cell lines as compared to epithelial counterparts (Fig. 6j). To ultimately validate these findings in clinical samples, we collected non-invasive and invasive breast tumor samples (n = 20 each) and analyzed the expression of FBXO32 in these samples. In line with our previous observations, FBXO32 expression was significantly higher in the invasive tumors compared to the non-invasive tumors (Fig. 6k). Overall, these comprehensive set of observations extend our findings to the clinic and suggest a role for FBXO32 in promoting tumorigenicity and metastasis in humans.
